You can convince yourself of the first axiom by thinking about the math definition of probability. As you perform trials of an experiment it is not possible to get more events than trials (thus probabilities are less than 1) and it's not possible to get less than 0 occurrences of the event (thus probabilities are greater than 0). The second axiom makes sense too. If your event is the sample space, then each trial must produce the event. This is sort of like saying; the probability of you eating cake (event) if you eat cake (sample space that is the same as the event) is 1. The third axiom is more complex and in this textbook we dedicate an entire chapter to understanding it: Probability of or. It applies to events that have a special property called "mutual exclusion": the events do not share any outcomes.
These axioms have great historical significance. In the early 1900s it was not clear if probability was somehow different than other fields of math -- perhaps the set of techniques and systems of proofs from other fields of mathematics couldn't apply. Kolmogorov's great success was to show to the world that the tools of mathematics did in fact apply to probability. From the foundation provided by this set of axioms mathematicians built the edifice of probability theory.
How can you show that two or more events are independent? The default option is to show it mathematically. If you can show that  then you have proven that the two events are independent. When working with probabilities that come from data, very few things will exactly match the mathematical definition of independence. That can happen for two reasons: first, events that are calculated from data or simulation are not perfectly precise and it can be impossible to know if a discrepancy between  and  is due to inaccuracy in estimating probabilities, or dependence of events. Second, in our complex world many things actually influence each other, even if just a tiny amount. Despite that we often make the wrong, but useful, independence assumption. Since independence makes it so much easier for humans and machines to calculate composite probabilities, you may declare the events to be independent. It could mean your resulting calculation is slightly incorrect — but this "modelling assumption" might make it feasible to come up with a result.
Independence is a property which is often "assumed" if you think it is reasonable that one event is unlikely to influence your belief that the other will occur (or if the influence is negligible). Let's work through an example to better understand.
Computers have the power to process many events and consider the probability of very unlikely situations. While computers are capable of doing all the computation, the floating point representation means that computers can not represent decimals to perfect precision. In fact, python is unable to represent any probability smaller than 2.225e-308. On the other hand the log of that same number is -307.652 is very easy for a computer to store.
Why would you care? Often in the digital world, computers are asked to reason about the probability of data, or a whole dataset. For example, perhaps your data is words and you want to reason about the probability that a given author would write these specific words. While this probability is very small (we are talking about an exact document) it might be larger than the probability that a different author would write a specific document with specific words. For these sort of small probabilities, if you use computers, you would need to use log probabilities.

