WHEN the people of America reflect that they are now called upon to decide a question, which, in
its consequences, must prove one of the most important that ever engaged their attention, the
propriety of their taking a very comprehensive, as well as a very serious, view of it, will be evident.
Nothing is more certain than the indispensable necessity of government, and it is equally
undeniable, that whenever and however it is instituted, the people must cede to it some of their
natural rights, in order to vest it with requisite powers. It is well worthy of consideration therefore,
whether it would conduce more to the interest of the people of America that they should, to all
general purposes, be one nation, under one federal government, or that they should divide
themselves into separate confederacies, and give to the head of each the same kind of powers which
they are advised to place in one national government. It has until lately been a received and uncontradicted opinion, that the prosperity of the people of
America depended on their continuing firmly united, and the wishes, prayers, and efforts of our best
and wisest citizens have been constantly directed to that object. But politicians now appear, who
insist that this opinion is erroneous, and that instead of looking for safety and happiness in union,
we ought to seek it in a division of the States into distinct confederacies or sovereignties. However
extraordinary this new doctrine may appear, it nevertheless has its advocates; and certain characters
who were much opposed to it formerly, are at present of the number. 
Whatever may be the
arguments or inducements which have wrought this change in the sentiments and declarations of
these gentlemen, it certainly would not be wise in the people at large to adopt these new political
tenets without being fully convinced that they are founded in truth and sound policy.
It has often given me pleasure to observe, that independent America was not composed of detached
and distant territories, but that one connected, fertile, wide-spreading country was the portion of our
western sons of liberty. Providence has in a particular manner blessed it with a variety of soils and
productions, and watered it with innumerable streams, for the delight and accommodation of its
inhabitants. A succession of navigable waters forms a kind of chain round its borders, as if to bind it
together; while the most noble rivers in the world, running at convenient distances, present them
with highways for the easy communication of friendly aids, and the mutual transportation and
exchange of their various commodities.
With equal pleasure I have as often taken notice, that Providence has been pleased to give this one
connected country to one united people - a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the
same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of government, very
similar in their manners and customs, and who, by their joint counsels, arms, and efforts, fighting
side by side throughout a long and bloody war, have nobly established general liberty and
independence.
This country and this people seem to have been made for each other, and it appears as if it was the
design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper and convenient for a band of brethren, united to
each other by the strongest ties, should never be split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien
sovereignties.
