Measure of uncertainty: It is tempting to think of probability as representing some natural randomness in the world. That might be the case. But perhaps the world isn't random. I propose a deeper way of thinking about probability. There is so much that we as humans don't know, and probability is our robust language for expressing our belief that an event will happen given our limited knowledge. This interpretation acknowledges your own uncertainty of an event. Perhaps if you knew the position of every water molecule, you could perfectly predict tomorrow's weather. But we don't have such knowledge and as such we use probability to talk about the chance of rain tomorrow given the information that we have access to.
Origins of probabilities: The different interpretations of probability are reflected in the many origins of probabilities that you will encounter in the wild (and not so wild) world. Some probabilities are calculated analytically using mathematical proofs. Some probabilities are calculated from data, experiments or simulations. Some probabilities are just made up to represent a belief. Most probabilities are generated from a combination of the above. For example, someone will make up a prior belief, that belief will be mathematically updated using data and evidence. Here is an example of calculating a probability from data: 
Probabilities and simulations: Another way to compute probabilities is via simulation. For some complex problems where the probabilities are too hard to compute analytically you can run simulations using your computer. If your simulations generate believable trials from the sample space, then the probability of an event E is approximately equal to the fraction of simulations that produced an outcome from E. Again, by the definition of probability, as your number of simulations approaches infinity, the estimate becomes more accurate.
Probabilities and percentages: You might hear people refer to a probability as a percent. That the probability of rain tomorrow is 32%. The proper way to state this would be to say that 0.32 is the probability of rain. Percentages are simply probabilities multiplied by 100. "Percent" is Latin for "out of one hundred".
Problem: Use the definition of probability to approximate the answer to the question: "What is the probability a newborn elephant child is male?" Contrary to what you might think the gender outcomes of a newborn elephant are not equally likely between male and female. You have data from a report in Animal Reproductive Science which states that 3,070 elephants were born in Myanmar of which 2,180 were male [1]. Humans also don't have a 50/50 sex ratio at birth [2].
Answer: The Experiment is: A single elephant birth in Myanmar. 
The sample space is the set of possible sexes assigned at birth, {Male, Female, Intersex}. 
 is the event that a new-born elephant child is male, which in set notation is the subset {Male} of the sample space. The outcomes are not equally likely.
By the definition of probability, the ratio — of trials that result in the event, to the total number of trials — will tend to our desired probability:
Since 3,000 is quite a bit less than infinity, this is an approximation. It turns out, however, to be a rather good one. A few important notes: there is no guarantee that our estimate applies to elephants outside Myanmar. Later in the class we will develop language for "how confident we can be in a number like 0.71 after 3,000 trials?" Using tools from later in class we can say that we have 98% confidence that the true probability is within 0.02 of 0.710.
These three axioms are formally called the Kolmogorov axioms and they are considered to be the foundation of probability theory. They are also useful identities!
You can convince yourself of the first axiom by thinking about the math definition of probability. As you perform trials of an experiment it is not possible to get more events than trials (thus probabilities are less than 1) and it's not possible to get less than 0 occurrences of the event (thus probabilities are greater than 0). The second axiom makes sense too. If your event is the sample space, then each trial must produce the event. This is sort of like saying; the probability of you eating cake (event) if you eat cake (sample space that is the same as the event) is 1. The third axiom is more complex and in this textbook we dedicate an entire chapter to understanding it: Probability of or. It applies to events that have a special property called "mutual exclusion": the events do not share any outcomes.
These axioms have great historical significance. In the early 1900s it was not clear if probability was somehow different than other fields of math -- perhaps the set of techniques and systems of proofs from other fields of mathematics couldn't apply. Kolmogorov's great success was to show to the world that the tools of mathematics did in fact apply to probability. From the foundation provided by this set of axioms mathematicians built the edifice of probability theory.
How can you show that two or more events are independent? The default option is to show it mathematically. If you can show that  then you have proven that the two events are independent. When working with probabilities that come from data, very few things will exactly match the mathematical definition of independence. That can happen for two reasons: first, events that are calculated from data or simulation are not perfectly precise and it can be impossible to know if a discrepancy between  and  is due to inaccuracy in estimating probabilities, or dependence of events. Second, in our complex world many things actually influence each other, even if just a tiny amount. Despite that we often make the wrong, but useful, independence assumption. Since independence makes it so much easier for humans and machines to calculate composite probabilities, you may declare the events to be independent. It could mean your resulting calculation is slightly incorrect — but this "modelling assumption" might make it feasible to come up with a result.
Independence is a property which is often "assumed" if you think it is reasonable that one event is unlikely to influence your belief that the other will occur (or if the influence is negligible). Let's work through an example to better understand.
Computers have the power to process many events and consider the probability of very unlikely situations. While computers are capable of doing all the computation, the floating point representation means that computers can not represent decimals to perfect precision. In fact, python is unable to represent any probability smaller than 2.225e-308. On the other hand the log of that same number is -307.652 is very easy for a computer to store.
Why would you care? Often in the digital world, computers are asked to reason about the probability of data, or a whole dataset. For example, perhaps your data is words and you want to reason about the probability that a given author would write these specific words. While this probability is very small (we are talking about an exact document) it might be larger than the probability that a different author would write a specific document with specific words. For these sort of small probabilities, if you use computers, you would need to use log probabilities.
