“GOOD EVENING,” SAID LUCY. BUT THE Faun was so busy picking
up its parcels that at first it did not reply. When it had finished it
made her a little bow.
“Good evening, good evening,” said the Faun. “Excuse me—I don’t
want to be inquisitive—but should I be right in thinking that you are
a Daughter of Eve?”
“My name’s Lucy,” said she, not quite understanding him.
“But you are—forgive me—you are what they call a girl?” asked the
Faun.
“Of course I’m a girl,” said Lucy.
“You are in fact Human?”
“Of course I’m human,” said Lucy, still a little puzzled.
“To be sure, to be sure,” said the Faun. “How stupid of me! But I’ve
never seen a Son of Adam or a Daughter of Eve before. I am delighted.
That is to say—” and then it stopped as if it had been going to say
something it had not intended but had remembered in time.
“Delighted, delighted,” it went on. “Allow me to introduce myself. My
name is Tumnus.”
“I am very pleased to meet you, Mr. Tumnus,” said Lucy.
“And may I ask, O Lucy Daughter of Eve,” said Mr. Tumnus, “how
you have come into Narnia?”
“Narnia? What’s that?” said Lucy.
“This is the land of Narnia,” said the Faun, “where we are now; all
that lies between the lamppost and the great castle of Cair Paravel on
the eastern sea. And you—you have come from the wild woods of the
west?”
“I—I got in through the wardrobe in the spare room,” said Lucy.
“Ah!” said Mr. Tumnus in a rather melancholy voice, “if only I had
worked harder at geography when I was a little Faun, I should no
doubt know all about those strange countries. It is too late now.
“But they aren’t countries at all,” said Lucy, almost laughing. “It’s
only just back there—at least—I’m not sure. It is summer there.”
“Meanwhile,” said Mr. Tumnus, “it is winter in Narnia, and has
been for ever so long, and we shall both catch cold if we stand here
talking in the snow. Daughter of Eve from the far land of Spare Oom
where eternal summer reigns around the bright city of War Drobe,
how would it be if you came and had tea with me?”
“Thank you very much, Mr. Tumnus,” said Lucy. “But I was
wondering whether I ought to be getting back.”
“It’s only just round the corner,” said the Faun, “and there’ll be a
roaring fire—and toast—and sardines—and cake.”
“Well, it’s very kind of you,” said Lucy. “But I shan’t be able to stay
long.”
“If you will take my arm, Daughter of Eve,” said Mr. Tumnus, “I
shall be able to hold the umbrella over both of us. That’s the way.
Now—off we go.”
And so Lucy found herself walking through the wood arm in arm
with this strange creature as if they had known one another all their
lives.
They had not gone far before they came to a place where the
ground became rough and there were rocks all about and little hills
up and little hills down. At the bottom of one small valley Mr.
Tumnus turned suddenly aside as if he were going to walk straight
into an unusually large rock, but at the last moment Lucy found he
was leading her into the entrance of a cave. As soon as they were
inside she found herself blinking in the light of a wood fire. Then Mr.
Tumnus stooped and took a flaming piece of wood out of the fire with
a neat little pair of tongs, and lit a lamp. “Now we shan’t be long,” he
said, and immediately put a kettle on.
Lucy thought she had never been in a nicer place. It was a little,
dry, clean cave of reddish stone with a carpet on the floor and two
little chairs (“one for me and one for a friend,” said Mr. Tumnus) and
a table and a dresser and a mantelpiece over the fire and above that a
picture of an old Faun with a gray beard. In one corner there was a
door which Lucy thought must lead to Mr. Tumnus’s bedroom, and on
one wall was a shelf full of books. Lucy looked at these while he was
setting out the tea things. They had titles like The Life and Letters of
Silenus or Nymphs and Their Ways or Men, Monks, and Gamekeepers; a
Study in Popular Legend or Is Man a Myth?
“Now, Daughter of Eve!” said the Faun.
And really it was a wonderful tea. There was a nice brown egg,
lightly boiled, for each of them, and then sardines on toast, and then
buttered toast, and then toast with honey, and then a sugar-topped
cake. And when Lucy was tired of eating, the Faun began to talk. He
had wonderful tales to tell of life in the forest. He told about the
midnight dances and how the Nymphs who lived in the wells and the
Dryads who lived in the trees came out to dance with the Fauns;
about long hunting parties after the milk-white stag who could give
you wishes if you caught him; about feasting and treasure-seeking
with the wild Red Dwarfs in deep mines and caverns far beneath the
forest floor; and then about summer when the woods were green and
old Silenus on his fat donkey would come to visit them, and
sometimes Bacchus himself, and then the streams would run with
wine instead of water and the whole forest would give itself up to
jollification for weeks on end. “Not that it isn’t always winter now,”
he added gloomily. Then to cheer himself up he took out from its case
on the dresser a strange little flute that looked as if it were made of
straw and began to play. And the tune he played made Lucy want to
cry and laugh and dance and go to sleep all at the same time. It must
have been hours later when she shook herself and said:
“Oh, Mr. Tumnus—I’m so sorry to stop you, and I do love that tune
—but really, I must go home. I only meant to stay for a few minutes"
“It’s no good now, you know,” said the Faun, laying down its flute
and shaking its head at her very sorrowfully.
“No good?” said Lucy, jumping up and feeling rather frightened.
“What do you mean? I’ve got to go home at once. The others will be
wondering what has happened to me.” But a moment later she asked,
“Mr. Tumnus! Whatever is the matter?” for the Faun’s brown eyes had
filled with tears and then the tears began trickling down its cheeks,
and soon they were running off the end of its nose; and at last it
covered its face with its hands and began to howl.
“Mr. Tumnus! Mr. Tumnus!” said Lucy in great distress. “Don’t!
Don’t! What is the matter? Aren’t you well? Dear Mr. Tumnus, do tell
me what is wrong.” But the Faun continued sobbing as if its heart
would break. And even when Lucy went over and put her arms round
him and lent him her handkerchief, he did not stop. He merely took
the handkerchief and kept on using it, wringing it out with both hands
whenever it got too wet to be any more use, so that presently Lucy
was standing in a damp patch.