Mark Zuckerberg met on Wednesday with President-elect Donald J. Trump in a rare face-to-face encounter, the latest attempt by the Meta chief executive to establish a positive rapport with Mr. Trump.

The meeting, confirmed by three people with knowledge of the matter, was initiated by Mr. Zuckerberg, who has had a strained relationship with Mr. Trump over the past decade. Mr. Trump, who has long maintained that Meta has unfairly restrained him and other conservatives across its social media apps, has lobbed broadsides against Mr. Zuckerberg on social media and during stump speeches.

Mr. Zuckerberg flew into West Palm Beach, Fla., on Tuesday evening before joining Mr. Trump at his hotel and club, Mar-a-Lago, on Wednesday, according to the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the meeting. The two men largely exchanged pleasantries, with Mr. Zuckerberg congratulating Mr. Trump on winning the presidency.

After the early afternoon meeting, Mr. Trump and Mr. Zuckerberg planned to have dinner at Mr. Trump’s hotel later that evening, the people said.

“It’s an important time for the future of American innovation,” a Meta representative said in a statement. “Mark was grateful for the invitation to join President Trump for dinner and the opportunity to meet with members of his team about the incoming administration.”

But Mr. Zuckerberg’s overtures come as the chief executive seeks to insulate Meta — which owns Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp — from any potential blowback from the incoming administration. Meta has long been a target of conservatives in Washington; some in Congress have called for reining in what they see as censorship of conservative viewpoints. And Mr. Trump has personally called for Mr. Zuckerberg to be jailed in retaliation for “plotting against” him during the 2020 election.

As executives at Meta recognized Mr. Trump’s potential for victory in the 2024 election, Mr. Zuckerberg has spent the past 18 months trying to repair the relationship.

Mr. Zuckerberg had at least two private phone calls with Mr. Trump over the course of the summer, according to two people with knowledge of the talks, one of which saw the tech executive wishing Mr. Trump well and “praying” for him after the assassination attempt on his life. And in an interview over the summer, Mr. Zuckerberg said Mr. Trump looked like a “badass” after pumping his fist to the crowd when he was shot at by a would-be assassin during a rally in Pennsylvania.

Other tech executives, like Elon Musk, who has stumped for the conservative movement and gave hundreds of millions of dollars to the Trump campaign, have forged a closer relationship with Mr. Trump. (Mr. Musk and Mr. Zuckerberg have developed such a tense relationship that the two spent 2023 challenging one another to a physical fight.) But executives at Meta hope that Mr. Zuckerberg can launch a new relationship with Mr. Trump by taking a softer touch with the incoming administration.

Stephen Miller, Mr. Trump’s incoming deputy chief of staff for policy, characterized the meeting a bit differently than did Meta. Mr. Miller told Fox News on Wednesday that Mr. Zuckerberg “has been very clear about his desire to be a supporter of, and a participant in, this change we’re seeing all around America and the world, with this reform movement that Donald Trump is leading.”

Of all the Trump children, no one has stuck closer to their father’s side than Donald Jr., the president-elect’s eldest son.

The 46-year-old Mr. Trump has found political power and personal fortune in stoking the flame of the Make America Great Again movement his father started. He has an array of conservative-focused businesses, from a publishing company to a seven-figure annual podcasting deal. Forbes recently estimated Mr. Trump’s worth — largely built in the wake of his father’s political career after Jan. 6, 2021 — to be around $50 million.

For that reason, his associates say, he has no plans to join the administration. But he also understands what his siblings and several first-term administration officials learned the hard way: Trying to serve as a gatekeeper for his father is a politically perilous exercise.

In recent weeks, as the president-elect builds out his administration, his son has served as something of a loyalty scanner. As they review candidates at Mar-a-Lago in Florida, the president-elect is concerned with who looks good and who can deliver a message, people around them say. His son is focused on whether they mean what they are saying, and if they present a threat to the MAGA order.

Donald Trump Jr. has championed appointees and nominees who not only share the president elect’s views on policy but have also passed the most important purity test: They support the falsehood that he won the 2020 election, and downplay his decision to encourage a mob to storm the U.S. Capitol two months later.

In recent appearances, Donald Trump Jr. has made it clear that he believes that everything that has happened since early 2021 happened because true loyalists dug in and kept on believing, watching in the wings as Democrats made a series of strategically fatal decisions on economic and social policy.

“Now you got four years where we know what we’re doing, where we have a chance to start from scratch with people who we know are absolute warriors for the movement,” he said on the conservative activist Charlie Kirk’s podcast last week. “Now you’re stuck with that for four years.”

It was Donald Trump Jr. who saw the early threat that Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s candidacy posed to his father’s campaign, and who, allies say, tried to brainstorm ways to bring him into the fold.

Since Mr. Kennedy was chosen as the nominee for Health and Human Services secretary, Donald Trump Jr. has kept him close, even feeding the notoriously health-conscious Mr. Kennedy a McDonald’s burger aboard his father’s plane and then taking a picture of it.

This loyalty-first approach explains how and why Matt Gaetz, a fierce Trump defender, was selected as the nominee for attorney general. (The subject of an investigation involving sex trafficking, Mr. Gaetz pulled himself out of consideration last Thursday.)

It explains how Sergio Gor, Donald Trump Jr.’s business partner at Winning Team, their conservative publishing company, was selected to lead the White House Personnel Office. And it explains how JD Vance, the vice president-elect, was chosen, as well.

Each choice amounted to a set-it-and-forget-it guarantee, not only for a president who demands fealty but also for a son prepared to enforce his father’s demands.

Donald Trump Jr. declined a request for an interview through a spokesman, but others who are close to him were cleared to speak on his behalf, including Mr. Kirk. “He only weighs in when something is particularly important to him,” Mr. Kirk said, “or where he feels as if there might be something that would not be in his father’s best interest.”

Topics that are most important to him include issues around the 2nd Amendment, the border, privacy and foreign policy, several allies said, with one prominent example: Donald Trump Jr. was an early champion of Mr. Vance because the two men shared the belief that the United States should stop the flow of aid to Ukraine.

He is also a crusader in the so-called anti-woke movement, and seems to revel in being hated and feared by liberal Americans who accuse him of harmful and divisive beliefs. Week after week, he publishes a torrent of posts on social media, targeting an array of topics and people that are red meat to the MAGA base, from transgender Americans to members of the news media.





