As climate impacts intensify, adaptation action
continues to fall behind needs. The twenty-ninth
Session of the Conference of the Parties to the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (COP 29) in Baku provides an important
opportunity to alter this trajectory.
Ever more frequent and extreme climate impacts illustrate
just how much is at stake as global average temperatures
rapidly approach 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, while
mitigation action is woefully underachieving on the
scale and ambition needed to keep within the long-term
temperature goals of the Paris Agreement. As climate
impacts rise with warming, both the costs of reducing
risks through adaptation and the likelihood of the residual
risks manifesting in the form of losses and damages
increase. These climate impacts hit the poor and vulnerable
hardest, including women and disadvantaged groups.
Effective and adequate adaptation action incorporating
elements of fairness and equity is thus more urgent than
ever before. By strengthening the adaptation components
in their third set of nationally determined contributions
(NDCs), due in February 2025, Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) can
emphasize their adaptation priorities and the means needed
to achieve them.
The Adaptation Gap Report (AGR) 2024 provides its
annual assessment on progress in adaptation planning,
implementation and finance. It shows that, while inching
forward on adaptation planning, collectively developing
countries are falling behind on implementation because of
the enormous gap between adaptation finance needs and
flows. This is especially relevant in the context of the New
Collective Quantified Goal (NCQG) for climate finance, which
is to be established during COP 29 in Baku. However, given
the scale of the challenge, the NCQG can only be a part of
the solution, and bridging the adaptation finance gap will
also require innovative approaches and enabling factors
to mobilize additional financial resources. In addition to
finance, there is a need to strengthen capacity-building
and technology transfer, and to enhance the effectiveness
of adaptation actions. As the Azerbaijan Presidency has
made means of implementation a central tenet of COP 29,
this year’s AGR also provides deeper insights into the status
and trends of capacity-building and technology transfer, and
how improving them can contribute to enhancing effective
adaptation planning and implementation. Lastly, given the
AGR’s role in providing regular progress updates on metrics
relevant to the global goal on adaptation, this year’s report
also reflects on what can already be said about progress
towards several of the targets laid out in the United Arab
Emirates Framework for Global Climate Resilience (UAE
FGCR) that was agreed at COP 28 in Dubai.
To that end, this executive summary is structured around
four headlines that cover main topics of the AGR 2024:
1) progress in adaptation planning, implementation and
finance; 2) bridging the adaptation finance gap; 3) enhancing
capacity-building and technology transfer to improve the
effectiveness of adaptation actions; and 4) insights into
aspects of the UAE FGCR.
1. Progress in adaptation planning,
implementation and finance
The quality of adaptation planning is improving, but
reaching global coverage of national adaptation
planning instruments will be difficult.
As a result of the increased attention to and investment
in adaptation planning over the past two decades,
171 countries (87 per cent) now have at least one national
adaptation planning instrument (policy, strategy or plan) in
place. Of these, 51 per cent have a second and 20 per cent
have a third instrument (figure ES.1). However, although 16 of
the 26 countries without a national planning instrument are
in the process of developing one, there remain 10 countries
that currently show no indication of developing such an
instrument. Seven of these countries rank highly on the
Fragile States Index, suggesting that they face internal
fragility, conflict or geopolitical tensions. To close the gap
and meet the UAE FGCR target on adaptation planning
will require increasing quantities of support going to these
fragile and conflict-afflicted countries. Further, as these
countries are likely to be hindered by weak institutions, the
support which is provided will need to include significant
and sustained capacity- and institutional-strengthening.
In addition to coverage, the quality of the planning instruments
is an important indicator for the likely effectiveness
with which they can be implemented. An analysis of the
national adaptation plans (NAPs) submitted to the UNFCCC
secretariat reveals that the potential effectiveness of
adaptation planning is mixed. Most countries identify a mix
of priorities that address both specific, sectoral climate risks
and enablers of adaptation action, while addressing issues
of inclusivity and participation, including of historically
disadvantaged groups, such as women, indigenous peoples
and local communities. However, there are shortcomings
in the robustness of the evidence base and gaps regarding
specific timeframes for and costs of adaptation priorities
affecting their implementability. Thus, there is significant
scope for improvement as countries introduce new or
update existing national adaptation planning instruments.
Finally, an analysis of alignment between NAPs and NDCs
finds that most countries’ NAPs and NDCs are only partially
aligned (68 per cent), with a further 16 per cent showing
no alignment. As countries update their NDCs, significant
emphasis should be placed on ensuring alignment between
these two instruments, so that they can mutually reinforce
each other, lead to more strategic investments and avoid
duplication of effort.
Progress in adaptation implementation is slow and
marred with problems. Countries need to ramp up
their ambitions to prepare for increasing climate risks.
Across different data sources, information on the
implementation of adaptation actions shows large annual
fluctuations but they ultimately result in a slight upward
trend over time (figure ES.2). Yet considering the pace
of climate change, a boost in support of adaptation
implementation is urgently needed. Greater focus on and
support provided for adaptation in the next round of NDCs
could give credence to strengthened country ambitions
and actions. Next to the lack of acceleration in adaptation
implementation, final evaluations of adaptation actions
implemented with support from the financial mechanisms
of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement show that
approximately half are rated either not satisfactory in their
results, or are unlikely to be sustainable without project
funds in the longer term. Analysis of NAP implementation
progress reports shows mixed results, and reveals a range
of institutional, regulatory, financial and capacity-related
barriers limiting progress. Countries often overcome initial
difficulties and report significant progress regarding
the extent of actions that are under implementation.
However, data on the results and effectiveness of NAP
implementation remains very limited. Of those countries
that have assessed the adequacy of their adaptation
response, all found it to be insufficient relative to the
extent of climate risks.